[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Now, we don't see the
executions of the declarations of function
bar and function baz anymore.
As a matter of fact,
from an executional perspective,
lines 3 through 10 don't exist anymore,
because they've been declared elsewhere.
But let's pretend bar is going to be
called, so let's execute the function bar.
We're inside of the scope of bar now and
we need to execute line 4.
Remember, the var doesn't exist anymore.
So how are we going to to execute line 4?
Everybody tell me,
what questions needs to be asked and
what is that gonna it sound like?
>> Male Speaker 1: Ask the scope for
function bar manager, what foo is.
>> Kyle Simpson: Hey scope of bar,
I have a what kind of reference?
>> Male Speaker 1: Variables.
>> Kyle Simpson: Is it an LHS or
is it an RHS?
>> Male Speaker 1: LHS.
>> Kyle Simpson: I have a LHS
reference for variable called.
>> Male Speaker 1: Foo.
>> Kyle Simpson: Foo, never heard of him.
What's the answer gonna be
back from the scope of bar?
Yep, you declared him
just a little while ago when we
compiled the function, here ya go.
This is gonna hand us back a reference,
now we go to the right hand side again.
The right hand side's an immediate value,
I wanted to make this
code a little simpler.
So we got an immediate value, we can just
copy it, and execute that operation,
that assignment operation from line 4.
Everybody with me so far?
Okay, feel free to ask questions,
feel free to stop.
This an interactive class.
You don't wanna just
hear me drone on all day.
I want you to be able
to interact with this.
>> Male Speaker 2: Can you ask
the local scope or something?
>> Kyle Simpson: Say that again.
>> Male Speaker 2: The foo, we did not
research the local scope or something.
We did not say hey,
I have local scope for foo.
>> Kyle Simpson: That's
exactly what just happened.
It might've been subtle, but
our conversation said, hey, scope of bar.
So we're asking the local scope of bar,
do you have a variable called foo?
We always ask our local scope
first before we go elsewhere.
And we'll get to that in just a minute,
okay?
All right, so
now let's execute the function baz.
And again, for
the purposes of our discussion,
we don't see the baz being executed.
So let's ignore any assignment
that might've happened to
the foo ahead of time.
Let's just execute baz as it stands.
How are we going to execute line 8?
>> Male Speaker 3: Hey scope of baz,
do you have an identifier named foo?
>> Kyle Simpson: What kind of
a reference do I have for it?
>> Male Speaker 3: Left handed.
>> Kyle Simpson: I've got a LHS reference,
again I keep hammering on that.
That sounds like an irrelevant point, but
we're gonna see why it's
actually really relevant.
I have an LHS reference for
a variable called.
>> Male Speaker 3: Foo.
>> Kyle Simpson: Ever heard of him?
What's the answer gonna be?
>> Male Speaker 3: It's in my definition.
>> Kyle Simpson: It's in my definition
because I had a parameter named that.
So I have a local variable
called foo that I can reference.
So it hands us back a reference to that so
we can assign a value to it,
everybody with me?
We then assign bam into that foo.
Now when we assign to that foo, are we
assigning to that guy or to that guy?
No, obviously not,
because the guy that we got returned,
we asked our local scope first, and
that's the guy we got returned.
Here's where things get interesting, and
here's where people start to
get pissed off at JavaScript.
Let's execute line 9.
How is line 9 gonna to execute?
>> Male Speaker 1: Badly.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah, badly, good answer.
>> Male Speaker 4: It'll ask baz.
>> Kyle Simpson: Hey scope of baz,
I have an-
>> Male Speaker 4: Bam.
>> Kyle Simpson: I have an LHS
reference for a variable called?
>> Male Speaker 4: Bam.
>> Kyle Simpson: Ever heard of him?
What's the answer gonna be?
>> Male Speaker 2: Nope.
>> Kyle Simpson: Anybody ever played the,
what was that?
>> Male Speaker 5: Are we in strict mode?
>> Kyle Simpson: We
are not in strict mode.
We see no strict mode.
So the answer's gonna be,
never heard of it.
Anybody ever heard of
the card game Go Fish?
Sometimes I give this class in cultures
where they don't know that card game,
so it misses this reference.
The card game Go Fish, where I've got
some eights in my hand and you ask for
eights and I have to give them to you.
But if you ask for nines what do I
say if I don't have nines in my hand?
I say, go fish.
So it's kind of like that.
We ask the function baz, hey scope of baz,
ever heard of a variable called bam,
cuz I got an LHS reference for him?
And the answer is, go fish.
I don't got it,
never heard of it, go fish.
So where do we go?
Well, we go out one level of scope.
So we begin to think about these scopes
as being nested inside of each other.
And we'll get to nested scopes
in a little bit, more formally.
But what we see here is, because I cannot
fulfill that reference for bam inside of
my local scope, the next place that I
go is to my global scope in this case.
It could've been a surrounding function,
could've been 15 levels deep,
it doesn't matter.
But I would go to the next outer, and
then the next outer, and the next outer.
Course, once I get to the global,
it's either gonna find it or
not, but I have nowhere else
to go beyond the global.
But we're at the global so
we're gonna then say, hey global scope,
I've got an LHS reference for
variable called bam, ever heard of him?
And what's the answer from
the global scope gonna be?
>> Male Speaker 3: Just did.
>> Kyle Simpson: [LAUGH] The answer's
gonna be, yes I just created him for you.
And that's where people
get really pissed off.
Because we're not in strict mode and we
would expect for the global scope to say,
no never heard of him.
But unfortunately,
it will go ahead and create one for
us because we had a LHS reference,
and here's why that's important.
If it had been an RHS reference,
it would've been different.
But because we have an LHS reference and
we get to the global scope and
we're in non strict mode, he's gonna say,
I tried to be a helpful guy.
I went in and created a bam for you in
the global scope, not in your local scope,
but in the global scope.
Then so here you go, and you hand it back.
So when we make this assignment,
are we assigning to a local variable or
to a global variable?
>> Male Speaker 3: Global.
>> Kyle Simpson: The global variable,
the bam.
And that's where we get this idea
of leakage of global variables.
That's how it happened.
Because we didn't find it in our local
scope, we stepped out to the outer scope,
and because we're in non-strict mode,
he responded back and
he said, I went ahead and created one.
Now had we been in strict mode,
which I recommend you write your
code in from now on, by the way,
had we been in strict mode, the answer
would've been nope, never heard of him.
Now, if you get to the global scope and
you get back an answer that says, nope,
never heard of him,
that's an error condition.
Because you're trying to assign to
somebody that's not been declared.
This is an important key difference and
we're gonna come back to this a couple
times today throughout the rest
of morning and this afternoon.
The difference between something
being declared or not.
If it was declared,
there's gonna be a var somewhere or
a function somewhere, that's
required to make something declared.
If you do not see a declaration somewhere,
it is in the state that
we would call undeclared.
Which means, basically, that we were
unable to fulfill a request to find that
reference in any of the scopes
that we had access to.
So an undeclared variable means
we were unable to find an LHS,
a proper LHS reference for it in any
of the scopes that we have access to.
Does everybody follow that?
Okay, now there's another word in
JavaScript which is undefined.
And I'm sure all of you
have heard undefined.
A lot of people think that
the word undeclared and
the word undefined
are synonyms of each other.
That undefined means the same thing,
and that's totally false.
The word undefined and the word undeclared
are very, very different from each other.
Undeclared is what is should
have been called when there's no
present declaration for the variable in
any of the scopes that we have access to.
Undefined means he was declared, but
he has this special empty value that
we mistakenly called undefined.
Shouldn't have been called undefined,
it should have been called
something else entirely.
But it really is more akin
to the word uninitialized.
The undefined is a proper value,
it's not the absence of a value,
it is an actual value.
It's kind of like in physics and
in space, like a vacuum,
there cannot be a vacuum
where there's no value.
So whenever you remove everything else,
the undefined value
immediately injects himself.
He's a proper value, he exists,
but that does not mean undeclared.
So keep undefined and
undeclared distinct in your minds.
Any questions so far?
I told you, I promised we'd spend 20 or
30 minutes on this one slide.
Any questions so
far about this idea of asking our
scope engine about LHS references?
Okay.
>> Male Speaker 2: When you
say-
>> Kyle Simpson: Go
ahead, then I'll get to you.
>> Male Speaker 2: When you say undefined,
is there any actual value, or
what exactly is told by the compiler?
>> Kyle Simpson: There is actually
a proper value called undefined.
If you look it up in the spec,
undefined is an actual value,
it's a type that exists
that has one value in it.
There is an undefined.
Get to you in just one sec, Will,
cuz I have this question over here.
>> Male Speaker 6: I'm just wondering if
you could speak to some of the nuances in
IE8 for the scoping, if there's anything.
>> Kyle Simpson: Nuances in IE8.
Well, you might have to be
a little bit more specific.
>> Male Speaker 6: I know,
I've never really fully understood it, but
I know that window doesn't
always equal global in IE8,
and I was just wondering if you had any?
>> Kyle Simpson: So,
I don't really have a good example that
I could explain of a condition
where window would not be global.
If you could come up with a concrete
example I could kind of look at.
>> Male Speaker 6: They've changed
all of their script floaters, and
now they explicitly declare window.gac or
.iba.
>> Kyle Simpson: Who is this?
>> Male Speaker 6: Google, or analytics.
So originally they just told you to
use gac, var gac, but I guess there is
some problem with IE8, that multiple
scripts don't use the same scope.
So if you declare a var in one script and
then you declare it later it will actually
override, it does something weird.
The window where globals go, and that's
just kind of what, I guess my question.
>> Kyle Simpson: We are going
to have to dig into that over
a lunch break-
>> Male Speaker 6: Yeah that
would be perfect, okay.
>> Kyle Simpson: I'm not familiar
with that particular scenario.
>> Male Speaker 1: Awesome.
>> Kyle Simpson: That sounds like
an awful bug, if that's true.
Yeah, Will?
>> Will: Mine wasn't a question so
much as just a comment, if everyone could
speak up for their questions,
sometimes you can't hear it on the stream.
>> Kyle Simpson: I'll try
to repeat the questions.
>> Will: If you could repeat the questions
that sound quiet, that would be great.
>> Kyle Simpson: Perfect, thanks, yeah.
>> Male Speaker 7: My question is, if you
had declared foo in the function baz.
>> Kyle Simpson: Uh-huh,
you mean I'd have a var foo here?
>> Male Speaker 7: Yep.
>> Kyle Simpson: Uh-huh.
>> Male Speaker 7: The argument
that's passed in would be
the var foo that was declared on line 1,
or?
>> Kyle Simpson: So the question is, if I
had on line 8 if it had also said var foo.
So I've got a variable declaration for
foo as a parameter name, and
then I try to essentially
sort of redeclare it,
is what a lot of people
would think that was doing.
What would happen?
Is that your question?
>> Male Speaker 7: Right.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, so
the first question to answer,
we're gonna go back to the compiler phase.
We haven't dealt with
multiple declarations,
but the first thing that would happen
when we were compiling function baz,
is that we would declare the variable foo
by virtue of the named parameter foo.
So we would declare the foo.
The next time we run across a var
foo anywhere in that function,
it's gonna say, hey scope of foo,
I have a declaration for foo.
And the scope is gonna respond back,
no big deal, I've already gotten it.
Because I've already declared it.
Now, that's for variable declarations.
There will be a subtle nuance that
function declarations are able to
override each other.
But for variable declarations,
it just essentially would've ignored that
that subsequent var,
had we put it there on line 8.
That answer your question?
>> Male Speaker 7: Yeah so
then within that function, foo would be,
would override var with bam.
>> Kyle Simpson: On line seven and
a half, foo might have a value
that was passed into him.
For our purposes we're ignoring
whatever value was passed into him,
we're overriding it.
So it is the same variable.
>> Male Speaker 7: All right.
>> Kyle Simpson: We're overriding it.
But we could have,
on line seven and a half,
could have console logged
out the initial value.
And if we passed it in as the number 42,
it would have that value
before it gets to line 8.